---
title: "AJAX"
tags: "AJAX"
---

- asynchronous javascript and XML
- update HTML without loading a new webpage (partial page updates)
- twitter, google maps, reddit use AJAX
- go to google maps ... show console ... right click, select "log XMLHttpRequests" ... drag page ... you'll see a new log: XHR finished loading: GET...
 (XHR: XMLHttpRequests)
 - javascript is used to send a request to a server, receive a response, do something with the response.
- server responses might be in XML or others like json
- the AJAX programming process can be broken up into 4 steps:
1. create an XMLHttpRequest object
2. create a callback function (something to run when the server returns its response)
3. open a request (method to send like GET, POST...and the url where the request is send)
4. send the request

```js
// create XMLHttpRequest object
var xhr = new XMLHttpRequest();
// create callback
xhr.onreadystatechange = function() {
  if (xhr.readyState === 4) {
    document.getElementById('ajax').innerHTML = xhr.responseText;
  }
};
// open a request
xhr.open('GET', 'sidebar.html');
// send request
xhr.send();
```

- must have a server running to view this stuff
- downsides of a GET method: all data sent in URL as a query string (bad for sensitive info) ... only so much info you can put into a URL ...
- POST method sends data separate from the URL in the body of the request. More secure and we can send a lot more info to the server this way. Need to set up a special header for the request.
- compare AJAX with pure JS, versus with jQuery
- web servers usually respond to a request with a text response. For lots of data, it's a good idea to have a structured data format like XML and JSON.

Ways to circumvent same-origin policy
1. Web Proxy
2. JSONP (json with padding) ... link to JS files across domains ... this is how CDNs work
3. CORS (cross-origin resource sharing). Requires some server setup.
